A method for obtaining high-precision approximations of high-order arithmetic operations is presented. These approximations provide an accurate starting approximation for high-precision iterative algorithms, which translates into few iterations and a short overall latency. The method uses a partial product array to describe an approximation and sums the array on an existing multiplier. By reusing a multiplier the amount of dedicated hardware is made very small. For the square-root operation
In this issue, Jaromahum and Fowler report results of a qualitative research study using a method known as phenomenology. Many different qualitative methods exist, most originating in other disciplines. These methods have many commonalities, but they do have some important differences. Phenomenology started as a philosophical movement that focused on the nature of experience from the point of view of the person experiencing the phenomenon (known as "lived experience"). A phenomenologist researcher examines the qualities or essence of an experience through interviews, stories, or observations with people who are having the experience of the researcher's interest. Jaromahum and Fowler wanted to understand the experiences of eating after esophagectomy: what is it like for a patient who has just undergone esophagectomy to eat for the first time?
This issue of Qualitative Health Research (QHR) features several articles under the flag of “phenomenology.” But what does that mean? The term phenomenology occurs in a confusing abundance and range of qualitative studies and publications. For some, it simply means that a study deals with “experience.” But, of course, that is misleading as many other qualitative methodologies are also concerned with human experiences. Some, look to phenomenological research for improving psychological health, steps for self-development, personal growth plans, experimental clinical designs, and approaches to therapeutic healing. But one has to be cautious here as well. Phenomenology is not to be confused with therapy or self-improvement psychology. Others employ phenomenology to examine how a particular group of individuals in a certain place or institutional context have certain experiences, for example, how certain residents in certain nursing homes in a certain place experience or suffer from chronic pain or undergo some other illness or treatment. But, phenomenology is not to be confused with case studies, ethnographies, narrative inquiries, or empirical studies that aim to generalize their findings to a certain group or population, and so forth. Therefore, for the sake of this editorial, I will make some comments that may help to distinguish phenomenology from other kinds of qualitative inquiry. The lines may not always be perfectly clear, but it should be helpful to consider, whether what is listed on the menu is indeed cooking in the kitchen.

There exist many methodological programs and paths that are branded as “interpretive, descriptive, or hermeneutic phenomenology” and that are supposed to engage phenomenological method and phenomenological practice. Some programs clearly contradict others in their methodologies and assumptions. So, repeatedly the question arises, “But is it phenomenology?” Or, “Is this good phenomenology?” If a journal editor receives a manuscript that is submitted for review as a phenomenological research text, then the reviewer or editor might ask whether the study is commensurate with the general scholarly accepted idea of phenomenology? To consider this question, one might justifiably turn to some exemplary explications of phenomenology from the literature. Husserl’s (2014) aim for phenomenology was to capture experience in its primordial origin or essence, without interpreting, explaining, or theorizing. And Martin Heidegger’s (1962) famous definition of phenomenology was “to let that which shows itself be seen from itself in the very way in which it shows itself from itself” . Heidegger’s approach is more ontological, but not inconsistent with the fundamental idea that phenomenology is concerned with what gives itself. More recently, a leading phenomenologist Jean-Luc Marion (2002) stresses again that phenomenology is the study of how things show or give themselves. He points out that things do not show themselves because we turn to them—When things show themselves, they can only do so because they have already given themselves to us. In other words, Marion warns against constructivist approaches to phenomenology where meaning is (pre-)determined, constructed, or attributed to a phenomenon or event by the subject.

Similar to these authoritative explications, many other phenomenologists have implicitly or explicitly defined phenomenology as the study of what it is that appears in consciousness; or what is the eidos (unique meaning) of what shows itself or gives itself in lived experience; or the study of how things (phenomena and events) give themselves to us; or the quest for originary understandings and insights into the phenomenality of human experiences. Of course, we need to be aware as well that one should distinguish between concrete phenomenological studies, and studies that address the methodology at a methodological meta-level and possibility of doing phenomenology in the first place.

The first response to the question, “But is it phenomenology?” could indeed be, Are the questions and objectives phenomenological? Is the meaning aimed for in this study phenomenological understanding or phenomenological insights? It should not be difficult to distinguish phenomenological meaning from psychological, (auto)biographic, ethnographic, narrative, theoretic, case study, general qualitative, or conceptual meaning. Numerous human science phenomenologists have implicitly or explicitly dedicated themselves to phenomenology as the study of how things appear, show, or give themselves in lived experience or in consciousness. Here follow some phenomenological questions, in no particular order, that have been pursued by well-known and by lesser known phenomenological scholars. Martinus Langeveld (1983), “What is the secret place like in the world of the child?” Frederik Buytendijk (1988), “What is the first smile of the newborn like?” Martin Heidegger (1995), “What is it like to be bored?” Edith Stein (1989), “What is it like to experience empathy?” Jean-Luc Nancy, “What is it like to experience a heart transplant?” Jan Linschoten (1987), “What is it like to experience insomnia and falling asleep?” Catherine Adams (2016), “What is the gesture of digital writing? Michael van Manen (2017 in this issue), “What is it like for a child to live with ventricular assist device (VAD)?” Erika Goble (2016), “What is it like to experience the sublime through images?” and so forth. I deliberately formulated the questions in a phenomenologically generic form: “What is this lived experience like?” “What is it like to experience this phenomenon or event?” Or, “How do we understand or become aware of the primal meaning(s) of this experience?” Of course, in actual publications, the phenomenological text may be presented with more inventive titles. For example, Nancy titled his study of the experience of heart transplantation as L’Intrus [The Intruder], which gets at the heart of the experience of a heart transplant experience.

The second response to the question, “But is it phenomenology?” could be, Does it look like phenomenology? The question is not does it copy other phenomenological studies? But rather, does it emulate the scholarly and reflective methods and thoughtfulness of the practices of the epoché and reduction of other exemplary phenomenological studies? Does it look like the studies of the phenomenological literature as exemplified in the writings of well-known phenomenologists? Some qualitative research projects are not driven by insights into phenomenological meaning but rather by an interest in other kinds of qualitative meanings, outcomes, and knowledge. They may be inspired by phenomenological concepts such as “lived experience” and “intentionality” but, their goals (however fascinating and worthwhile) are oriented to different qualitative ends.

The third response to the question, “But is it phenomenology?” could be, Are the results of the study originary phenomenological insights and understandings? If the interpretive descriptions of a phenomenological study do not contain phenomenological insights and understandings, then that is surely the most damaging or incriminating negative judgment whether a manuscript should be accepted as phenomenology in a scholarly sense. Reviewers generally measure a study by the proper employment of a recognized qualitative methodology, but they should have the courage as well to point out that the outcomes of a study are superficial, cliché, or shallow. It is not sufficient for an author to list some dubious themes that are primarily rephrased texts from interview transcripts as research “findings” as is only too often done. The topmost coveted prize of phenomenological human science research is indeed the promise of depthful understanding and meaningful insight. So it should be highly frustrating and disappointing when phenomenological undertakings fail to produce results that are composed of illuminating, meaningful, and/or thoughtful insights and understandings. Wherein lie some of the factors of this failure?

Some Basic Tenets
I realize that my attempt in this editorial to offer responses to the question “But is it phenomenology?” may be regarded as too constraining or even too pretentious. I am sorry if that is the impression. But in my defense, I want to say that I am so motivated and committed to the century-old philosophical and methodological scholarship of phenomenology that I regret it to be misused and poorly understood. So here I outline some brief tenets (of possible misconceptions and issues) that may prompt a discussion of some of the basic criteria of phenomenological inquiry.

First, what are some prevalent misconceptions of phenomenological inquiry and research?